# Changelog for Firmware

Put all software notes/changelog stuff here. Try to format something like below to minimize git conflicts:

```
## <date, or commit hash>

<notes>

### Added

### Changed

### Removed

## <older date/hash>

...
```

This format is adopted from [keepachangelog.com](https://keepachangelog.com).



## fb27eb7
- Moved the status LED to PC8 so the channels can be the low order byte from PC0-PC7. 
- Here's the channel map now: 
    - PC0 = Channel 1
    - PC1 = Channel 2
    - PC2 = Channel 3
    - PC3 = Channel 4
    - PC4 = Channel 5
    - PC5 = Channel 6
    - PC6 = Channel 7
    - PC7 = Channel 8
    - PC8 = Status LED
- Reverted the dma_buf from uint16_t back to uint8_t
- Reverted the DMA data width from HalfWord back to byte. 
- Reverted logic packet from 1028 back to 516 bytes (3 header + 512 data + 1 checksum)
- Reverted memcpy from DATA_CHUNK*2 back to DATA_CHUNK
- Reverted checksum index from packet[1027] back to packet[515]
- Note: Go decoder should now expect 516-byte logic packets with 512 uint8 samples, PC0=CH1 through PC7=CH8

## eff3053

### Changed
- In the receiver firmware, I changed it to use HalfWord DMA data width. The GPIO IDR is a 16 bit register, but the DMA transfer width actually controls how many bits it reads and writes at a time. So in Byte mode, which it was previously at, even though the GPIOC_IDR is 16-bits, the DMA only reads the low 8-bits of it and writes that byte to dma_buf. So it ignores the upper 8 bits. This is a problem for us because since we're using PC1-PC8 for the channels and PC0 as the status LED, PC8 actually overlaps past that 8 bits (PC0-PC7 is 8 bits). So we'll end up missing PC8 in that transfer with Byte Mode since the DMA completely ignores the upper 8 bits. 
- With HalfWord mode tho, the DMA reads all 16 bits and writes the 2 bytes to dma_buf. 
- Updated the logic packet size from 516 to 1028 bytes. This is because we're now taking 512 samples of 2 bytes (HalfWord) instead of 1 byte, so 512x2 = 1024 bytes for the data. The 1028 bytes = 3 header bytes (packet 0: 0xAA, packet 1: 0xBB, packet 2: seq_num) + 1024 data bytes + 1 checksum byte. 
- Updated the memcpy to copy DATA_CHUNK*2 bytes (1024 bytes = 512 uint16_t samples). 
- Updated the checksum index from packet[515] to packet[1027] - last index. 

- TODOs: We have to update the Go decoder to expect a 1028-byte packet structure with 512 uint16_t samples of 2 bytes each. 

## 6f83e89

### Added

- Added the Circular "Ping-Pong" system we discussed using a 1024-byte array called dma_buf. Basically, I split the memory into 2 512-byte sections. Initially, the DMA would start filling the buffer with samples from 0-512 blocks. **Keep in mind: It's 512, but we basically transmit it in boxes of 64 bytes at a time since USB can only handle 64.** Then, once the buffer is full, the CPU would start taking element by element all the way from position 0 to position 512. However, during this time, we're still getting samples of the signals. This is where the other section of the buffer comes in. While the USB is taking the already sampled data to the PC, the new samples start filling up from position 513 onward. Then once it's done, CPU takes from 513 onward to the USB, with positions 0-512 now getting filled up with DMA samples. So it's circular. 
- I think Arnav wanted to work on a Go or C/C++ workflow for decoding, but I wanted to add the CAN decoding stuff to the firmware, since we'll be using the bxCAN protocol to decode just the CAN on the STM32 itself. 
    - Logic Header (0xAA 0xBB): This is a 516-byte packet for 512 raw GPIO samples for UART, I2C, SPI. 
    - CAN Header (0xCC 0xDD): A variable length packet of up to 15 bytes that has a hardware-decoded CAN frame. 

- Added an XOR checksum to the end of every packet. I think everybody knows, but it basically just makes sure bytes aren't clipped.
- Logic packet sequence number (seq_num variable): These increment so we can see if packets were dropped during USB transmissio at all. 
- Added a bxCAN filter - I got this from a bxCAN source on Google, basically allows CAN frames to be decoded. 


## 832abc5

### Added

- Added a doxyfile, and the generated documentation.
- We haven't written much code yet, but the docs generated by doxygen hold all the documentation for the HAL functions we'll need to use.
- Find the docs at [./docs/html/index.html](./docs/html/index.html).

## 3ae0cc6

### Changed 

- Just a note: always feel free to make changes here. This is not final by any means
- Also worth nothing this is just for the receiver STM32. 
- Updated the clock tree to 168 MHz HCLK. It was previously 72 MHz, but I saw that 
we can increase it by adjusting the prescaler values. 
    - Here's the flow now: 
    - HSE (8 MHz) --> PLLM(/4) --> PLLN(x168) --> PLLP(/2) = 168 MHz
    - PLLQ = 7 - this provides our 48 MHz for the USB OTG FS
    - The APB1 prescaler is /4 for 42 MHz 
    - The APB2 prescaler is /2 for 84 MHz
- Adjusted the TIM1 PSC accordingly. Now, TIM1 PSC = 0 and ARR = 167. This provides the 
1 MHz sample rate for us. Here are the calculations involved for this (got some assistant from Claude)
    - General Formula: [(HCLK)]/[(PSC+1)(ARR+1)]
    - When you plug in PSC = 0 and ARR = 167, u get 1 MHz
    - Also enabled the auto-reload preload

- Updated the DMA2 Stream5 settings
    - Adjusted the Data width to byte/byte instead of half word (honestly, have to think this one through more with our workflow, but I think this makes sense?)
    - Disabled the FIFO - apparently, the FIFO buffers multiple transfers before moving it to the memory and waits for it to fill up, which is bad for us because the samples will wait on the FIFO instead of being written to memory immediately when the timer is fired. So too much delay for a logic analyzer, but open to suggestions here too
    - Set the priority to High as well. DMA is pretty important

- Set the NVIC priorities
    - TIM1 update interrupt and DMA2 Stream5 interrupt: 0 (high priority)
    - USB OTG FS interrupt: 1
    - Timer and DMA need to be higher priority. If the timer gets delayed, our samples won't be taken at exact intervals, and this will mess up our decoding. So I set them to the highest priority, although we might have to put it at 1 and USB at 2 to allow more critical stuff to have the highest priority. 
    - USB is less critical cuz it's just data transport. Even if it fires a little later, it can sit in the buffer we talked about. So we don't lose samples. 


### Added

- I added the CAN1 because bxCAn can properly decode the frames in the hardware. We need to discuss this more, and I did a little with Arnav, but here's the thing:
    - So if we have CAN at 500kbps (we can have less too)
        - 500kbps x 2 (nyquist rate) = 1 MHz sample rate = 2 samples per bit
        - Apparently, this is a little unsafe, and also we're right at that 1 MHz boundary. When u sample, u need to get the center reliably, and with just 2 samples, if the sample is slightly off center we can get misreads. We're cutting it too close. 
        - The recommended is sampling at 8-10 times. 
        - bxCAN solves these issues because it's a dedicated peripheral inside the STM32 just to decode CAN frames. It also has its own internal clocks too. So it'll decode it on the STM32, unlike how we decode the other protocols (UART, SPI, I2C) in Python
    - So CAN1 is at 500 kbps: 
        - PSC = 6, BS1 = 11, BS2 = 2 - Calculations r lowkey annoying to type up here, but I can show u guys
        - It's gonna use the 42 MHz APB1 clock
        - I enabled the RX0 interrupt since this is for the receiver STM
        - CAN1_RX = PB8
        - CAN1_TX = PB9
- It's way too much to read but just for documentation. Hope it helps a bit

## 2a7a1ed

### Added

- Generated the initializing code with CubeMX. As long as we don't write code outside the indicated comments, we should be able to regenerate on the fly.
- Port C, pins 1 - 8 are GPIO inputs, for the 8 channels respectively. All pulled low internally.
- PC0 is intended as a status output LED
    - Solid indicates it's in idle mode
    - Slow flash indicates it's working
    - Fast flash indicates error
- USART2 and SWD is connected to onboard programmer (on nucleo board)
- PA 12, 11, 9, and 8 are USB FS DP, DM, VBUS\_sense, and Start Of Frame (SOF) respectively.
    - SOF is a hardware output thing, originating at the host computer, generated every 1ms. We can use it within our code to sync the data packets we send. It is on an output pin in case we need it on an external device, but I don't expect we will. Not sure if we can turn it off.
- Prescaler is 35, and auto-reload register (ARR) is 138. Reasoning:
    - The ultimate cap on capture speed comes from USB FS constraints. This is realistically going to be ~1MBps.
    - For sending data from STM to PC, we have two options:
        - Send a start byte, a byte holding the 8 channels, and a byte for uint\_8 timestamp (`[Start byte] [Channels] [Timestamp]`). This means one packet (one data point on a channel) will be 3 bytes. At 1MBps we can send 333,333 updates per second. Fast enough for UART, I2C, and low speed CAN and SPI.
        - Alternative is to send in the format `[Start byte] [N Datapoints] [Timestamp]`. This way, every N bytes sent corresponds to N-2 datapoints. USB has a [max packet size of 64 bytes](https://community.st.com/t5/stm32-mcus-products/usb-cdc-how-to-increase-speed-baud-rate/td-p/620701), and apparently it's most efficient to send at this rate. If N=62, each 64 bytes sends 62 data points, which is effectively 900,000 data points per second. I'd argue this is more effective. We could make N variable in the code.
        - If we go with the 2nd option, prescaler being 35 and ARR being 1 (0 indexed) will make timer trigger DMA ~1M times per second (system freq = 72MHz); fastest rate. Increasing ARR will slow down the timer effectively, down to ARR = 5 making DMA trigger ~333,333 times per second.
        - Since we're using UART for now (comms between STM and PC), I've set ARR to 138, putting DMA at ~14,400 per second (matches 115,200 baud). We can easily increase speed later.
- GPIO reading DMA is set up using TIM1.
- CAN bus *is* enableable, but not enabled.
